And yeah, even going back to the service
management and that question, right?
Okay, so something happens,
we configured something wrong.
Whose responsibility is that?
Who would you say?
Somebody deployed a bad config.
Is that my job, DevOps?
Is that the developer's job, yep?
>> So it's the configuration for
the software, the product.
>> The environment, yeah.
Like my prod secrets, right, values,
that broke, whose responsibility is that?
Who do you think?
>> It's on infrastructure.
>> Really?
>> I think so, yeah.
Because I don't know.
I mean, the way that I see it is that
you're trying to set up processes that
are actually safely, to use the word,
container, actually, cordoning off.
>> Yep.
>> So that sort of thing doesn't hit prod
without someone seeing it.
>> Yeah, you're right.
>> [INAUDIBLE] Handling it.
>> So you're right,
however, you're also wrong.
[LAUGH] So
we went through this at Hippo, actually.
It was a very interesting conversation
because that's how it was before for us.
Every time an outage would happen,
every time something would break,
DevOps channel, DevOps channel just
became support ops for the whole company,
basically.
And we started recognizing that.
We're like, dude, before you merge the PR,
check your spelling.
Okay, just do that and it'll be great.
And what a lot of people don't realize is
that's the most common scenario of a lot
of these configuration problems.
Copy pasted it wrong,
or something like that.
Now, is it worth?
And again,
this is gonna sound really weird, but
is it worth me as a DevOps engineer
to take my time to try and fix that?
We've already, like you said,
we've already got the practices in place.
We've already got the container there,
right?
So if somebody comes to me with
a broken environment and says, hey,
then realistically, there's two options.
Yes, I can take their hand and
help them go through it, and
I don't mind doing that.
But if I have to do it five times for
every, once a week, then that's Dev hours,
that's money.
So what we realized was, like you
mentioned, really tight scopes, right?
But make it so
that they can do these things, right?
So our developers at Hippo actually have
control over their own configurations.
And we told them, we said,
listen, you're in power of this.
You break it, you fix it.
That's not us.
We will make sure that
the infrastructure is running.
We'll make sure that the uptime is there.
And we'll make sure that there's nothing
underneath you that could fail, right?
But, you are the one in charge
of your service, not me.
I am in charge of making sure that your
service runs in the sense of it can deploy
and things like that.
It's kind of like a boat.
The moment that boat is
ready to go out to sea,
I stop doing what you would expect
once the bottle hits the ship, right?
At that moment, you're out to sea,
and I'm here to help you.
I'm coast guard, right?
But you're the one on
the boat with your service.
And so developers being empowered
to manage their own services not
only enables that.
But it also makes it so
that if you have organizational teams,
like team leads and stuff like that.
Then that means that
those product owners now
bring that ownership into the team, right?
So product owners don't just think about,
well, let's get our features out, but
now they're also thinking,
well, when are we gonna deploy?
So the next thing is gonna be
continuous integration, right?
Developers really care about
how things are built, right?
And so this is gonna be like,
how do we build artifacts?
Are we building docker images?
Are we building binaries?
What are we building, right?
Testing changes,
making sure that if I make a change, and
this, man, this is a big one.
This is a really big one.
Because we've noticed, even at Hippo,
that developers are really like,
they'll pick one approach and
then they'll just use that approach.
And a good example of that is is
that we did create pipelines for
our developers at Hippo, but
what we realized was that's all they use.
We're like, what?
We're like, are you testing locally?
They're like, no, lemme just push it.
I'm like, are you serious?
They're like, yeah.
But then we realized it's because
the infrastructure got so
distributed that that was the only
way that they could test.
And we're like, okay.
So then we started looking at it, and
there was two options, one, local.
[LAUGH] Let's do local.
We didn't wanna do that.
We have 60 to 150 services,
depending on what part of the stack
that you're talking about.
So local for us is just impossible, right?
So what did we do?
We decided to improve our pipelines,
make them faster.
Make them run quicker and less cost heavy.
And what we essentially did was, is we
started leaning on things like caching,
making sure that branches
have their own caches.
Really trying to make it so
what the developer's expectation,
if they're gonna do that,
let's make sure that they're not just
burning money in the Cloud, [LAUGH] right?
And that was a big part of that.
So testing is really important.
Are you gonna test
locally before you push?
Are you gonna test in the Cloud, right?
And what are the developer's
expectations with that?
If you're testing locally and
in the Cloud, whose time are you wasting?
[LAUGH] Or if you have specific things
that you have local, but then you only do
specific things in the Cloud, then that
might be a better approach to it too.
Code coverage, this one is unfortunately
not used as often as I wish it was.
If you don't know what code coverage is,
it's basically the concept of
making sure you have a test for
every line of your code.
Most companies don't do this.
Call a spade a spade.
[LAUGH] Most companies don't.
They don't find value in it, right?
Why do tests and
coverage when I can just do tests?
However, what we have seen at Hippo
is that when you have code coverage,
it gives ownership to the developer for
those things.
And we're basically saying, hey, not only
are you just making sure your tests run,
but you're also monitoring
the quality of your code, right?
And so because of that, once again,
you're giving them the ownership
of their problems, right?
You're not saying, well, code broke.
I don't know what it is.
It's like, well, no, here are your tests.
Here's your code coverage.
You can find it, right?
And then code quality.
Now, code quality,
DevOps really can only speak, I would say,
about half on this conversation because
the other half is the developers.
The developers are the ones who are going
to take their opinionations of how do we
want to write the code?
What is it gonna look like?
Are we gonna use formatters?
Are we gonna use linters, whatever.
Those things we don't,
DevOps doesn't really care about.
If you wanna lint, sure, we can we can
add lint to the pipeline, whatever.
But that's where we come in, right,
is when that's where we work
together with the developers.
And we say, okay, you want linting,
how do we do it, right?
So developers must have dependable and
reliable pipelines for
everything they need, basically.
Yeah, and
then finally continuous delivery.
So going back to the example that I said
before of, hey, an outage happens or
something breaks,
whose responsibility is it for, or is it?
I think it's the developer's,
as we said before.
So how do we do that?
Well, we empower them to
deploy their own services.
And I'm gonna give you guys a quick story
after this in a second related to this.
And again, a big part of this is how
do I deploy the Docker image, right?
How do I get that?
And then again,
how do I get that from staging to
production to dev, to whatever, right?
So here's my story.
When I first got to Hippo,
I found that every two weeks,
the entire team or the entire company,
which is about 100 people,
would all join together on
a Wednesday night, about 5 PM.
Get on a phone call, or
get on a Zoom call, six other people, and
we'd go through the whole production
of deploying all 150 services.
Yeah, it sucked.
It was not fun at all.
And I did that for probably about six
to nine months before everyone on
the team was like,
my Wednesday nights are done.
I can't do anything, you know?
And so, two things about this.
One, it was a culture shift for
us to think that developers
could deploy things, hands down, right?
Because from a business level,
the reason why we did that was to
make sure nothing broke, right?
But what that really meant is we had
no confidence in our developers for
deploying things.
[LAUGH] That's what that really meant.
This was every two weeks, right?
So what did we do?
We sat down and
we figured out how we could empower
developers to deploy their own services.
Today, we had one service that
could deploy once every two weeks.
Now, it gets deployed four times a day.
Think about how fast you can
reiterate if you just simply say,
I'm not gonna be a part of this.
You guys do what you need to do, right?
And so that's what we did.
We basically realized that as long as
we have built a system in place that
allows a developer to be like,
send it to prod, and it goes, right?
That they take ownership of that.
And don't get me wrong, there are times,
we had a circumstance a few weeks ago,
even, where a developer pushed something
to prod, but it was broken, and
we didn't know.
But it wasn't a broken to where it wasn't
running, it was an internal logic error or
something like that.
However, they didn't check the service.
They just deployed it to prod and
then went home expecting
that it was gonna be fine.
The next morning, there's like
tons of alerts and ta-da-da-da.
And sure enough, we find out that yeah,
they deployed it.
They didn't think about it.
Who's responsible for that one?
>> The developer didn't
run any tests then.
>> Yep, exactly, yeah.
You as an organization
have to be ready for that.
Because if not,
then it's always gonna be on you.
It's always gonna be like,
well, DevOps does it.
No, [LAUGH] we don't have to.
And we changed that.
And so yeah, now we,
across our 150 services,
we deploy them multiple times a day.
We have channels for them so
that each team has their own channel
they can do their deployments through.
And we took that weight
off of us as a team, and
we pushed it on to the teams
that own their actual products.
Right, so again, it becomes this
separation of, if you've ever seen
Ghostbusters, we're kinda like the
gatekeepers, [LAUGH] you know what I mean?
We only unlock the door, you're the one
who has to walk through, right?
And that empowerment's really important.
So did you say developers
maintain their own deployments?
Yes, I did.
And
I do think it's something that
you guys should try and do.
I think if anything,
start thinking about it.
If you're not doing that already,
it's not like you couldn't.
It's just that you really need to
think about what are the pain points?
How do they do it?
How are they gonna potentially hurt
themselves, [LAUGH] if they do?
But they're brilliant,
talented people just like we are and
they're hired to do engineering too so
they should be able to.
So why is developer empowerment important,
especially for us?
It saves us time [LAUGH] honestly.
Like, there's two sides of it.
One, looking at faster development cycles.
Like I said before, we went from deploying
a service once every two weeks to
deploying it four times a day.
And this is our biggest, most important,
and most touched service.
And it gets deployed constantly now.
So we see that loop, right?
The faster feedback loop with that.
Faster time to market.
Maybe you're in a scenario where your
company needs to put something out, but
you're blocked because you don't deploy
except for on a specific time period.
Well, then marketing has to think about,
all right,
well we gotta do it this day and
we gotta plan around.
Like, it just, it becomes a burden and
a lot of people don't really
realize that it does, right?
And then yeah,
faster time to value through that.
Because you can get to where
you're trying to quicker.
You get that value faster, you learn
quicker and then you can iterate it.
So yeah, DevOps must empower
developers to be successful.
If we don't, the process doesn't
work the way that we wish it would.